# BookmarksApp

This project was generated using [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 21.2.12.

## Development server

To start a local development server, run:

```bash
ng serve
```

Once the server is running, open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`.

## Building

To build the project run:

```bash
ng build
```

This will compile your project and store the build artifacts in the `dist/` directory.

## Design

### How it works
The layout of the app is very simple. I used the Angular Material theme magenta/violet, with some Material components like buttons and icons. I used the PrimeNG paginator because the Angular Material one didn't suit my needs. The Overview page contains a form at the top where users can submit a URL they want to bookmark. They can type this in and then press the "Add bookmark" button. The form accepts URLS starting with https:// or without it, and will add this if not there. It also converts the hostname to lower case prevent duplicates, and will remove www. and trailing slash for the same reasons. 

The form will validate first that a URL has been entered, then that it is a valid URL format, then if it has already been bookmarked, and finally will attempt to validate the URL exists. Because the URL checking is front-end, it may not be the most reliable, but it appears to work reasonably well. When there is an error, the form input box is outlined red and a red error message displays below it, with the message depending on the type of error. When the error is a duplicate error (the bookmark is already saved), then the page jumps to where that existing bookmark is and highlights it red for the user to see.

Once the user has submitted an acceptable URL, the app saves the URL to local storage in order to persist upon page refresh, and redirects the user to the Results page. This page thanks the user for submitted, shows them their new bookmark as a link, and has a button they can click to go back to the Overview page. 

When the new bookmark is submitted, the URL is added to a list of stored URLs in local storage that are displayed on the Overview page, and also adds it to a separate variable in local storage in order to show it on the Results page. This list of bookmarks in local storage is intialised when the app starts. The relevant error that occurs when there is a validation error on submitting or editing is also stored in local storage.

The bookmarks are displayed in a table format with 20 rows, each row having the bookmark url as a hyperlink and an edit button and a delete button. The delete button deletes the bookmark from the list, and the edit button allows the user to edit a bookmark. When editing, it has the same checks as initially adding except for making sure it doesn't have a duplicate error when the bookmark is unchanged (aka having a duplicate error with itself). The error message is displayed in the same location as the error message when adding (above the bookmark table), but instead of the input box outlined red, the bookmark row being edited gets a red background and the text becomes red. When editing, there is a button to save the edit, and a button to cancel. Pressing the cancel reverts the bookmark to its original URL.

### Code structure

The code has two custom components, Overview and Results. The paths for these are refined in the routes file. Overview is at '/overview/' and Results is at '/results'. '' also redirects to the Overview page. Results has very little in it, as most of the functionality is related to the Overview page. Each of these components has a scss and html file where the relevant code is contained. There is also some extra css in the styles.scss file where some css had to be put in order to apply properly to the PrimeNG and Material components. I also have a Bookmarks service where I have put functions related to the app. These can be broken down into functions related to local storage bookmark actions, functions used for validation, and functions used for error actions. I also have a validator file which contains the three validator functions (duplicate URL, invalid URL, and URL not found). The rest of the app is pretty standard as if just generated by building a new Angular project. I have commented the majority of the code, excluding things that I felt were very self-explanatory (e.g. a function called addUrlError with one line of code in it).



## Limitations

The app is limited by not being able to have a back-end validation for the URL existance. I did my best to find a way to check this on the front end and it works decently, but I wouldn't say it is super reliable. I made it so the validation for format etc. completes first to avoid wasting time checking the existance of malformed URLs.

I also feel like I could have separated the error system between editing and adding URLs so they aren't stored in the same place, as I am worried I may have missed some cases while manual testing. It is also limited by not having automated testing or proper manual testing against different scenarios.

There is also a weird bug where when the user submits a duplicate bookmark and then deletes that bookmark and resubmits it without modifying the input text in the form it still says duplicate bookmark, but found a work around by clearing the text from the input form when the delete button is pressed. I also feel like I have put too much into the overview component, and would have liked to simplify it or move more things into the service.